The Joe Rogan experience.
When you're talking about China and the NBA and Hollywood movies,
a lot of people think of those things, those,
the interactions that Hollywood has that in the NBA has with China as being
insidious. They don't, they don't think it's a good thing at all,
that China has that kind of an influence. And they also think it's embarrassing.
Like a lot of people think that it's embarrassing for the NBA to when the
negative tweets, uh, when they're in supportive Hong Kong. And then,
uh,
all of a sudden there was some pushback and the NBA was removed from viewership
and China.
And there was a lot of sponsorships being pulled and it became a giant issue.
And then all of a sudden you saw the NBA kind of backtrack and kind of kowtow.
And a lot of people found that to be pretty disgusting.
We don't want the United States to ever be a country.
That's doing that to China, right? If China has a bunch of,
I don't know what they're really into over there, ping pong players,
like what's their, what's their primary sport. You have a lot of basketball.
They like basketball.
So imagine if Chinese basketball becomes super popular in the United States and
then the Chinese basketball players in the United States start talking about how
Apple uses slave labor. And, uh, we'd go, Hey, Hey,
watch your mouth, bro. We won't,
we won't pay for your Chinese basketball anymore.
And then all of a sudden China backs off.
Like we would think of that as being pretty gross by the United States of
ignoring some human rights violations or,
or trying to whitewash them and trying to economically attacking other
countries. So like the saying that it's a positive that China has all these
people and using as an example,
the fact they strong arm Hollywood and they strong arm, the NBA,
a lot of people think that's moving in the wrong direction. Me included,
like I don't want.
Yeah. I don't think it's positive.
I'm saying we need to be in a position to level the playing.
Is that leveling the playing field or will we just look we're corporations
have a giant problem with infinite growth, right? Yep.
This is a thing that seems completely, totally preposterous,
but it's the norm and the standard in the business world,
you want your growth to increase every year,
no matter what. And God knows where that goes.
I'm not a mathematician or an economist,
but if you extrapolate and keep going with that,
it leads to preposterous outcomes. Right?
That's what people would be worried about 10 fold.
If there's a billion people here, they'd be like,
Oh my God would be even more ruthless and more cutthroat. And,
and more like maybe more competitive with the rest of the world.
But in what way?
Well, it's only here. Let's talk about the China thing, right?
So the NBA is under China's thumb because they need
access to that market.
Well, they think they do, are they rich as?
So we could say right, maybe we need to have a rule that says like, well,
you know, you, you can't let the Chinese censor your. Right.
But the S the relative size of the markets is going to matter, right.
So we're, we're on Spotify here, right? So that's a Swedish Swedish company,
I think. Um, so, you know, great meatballs out here. Absolutely.
It's a lovely country. Right. But, so, so Sweden's a little country, right?
Yeah. All their companies, you know, you're talking Volvo Scania, Spotify,
they're dependent on a global marketplace. They need access, right.
If China is the biggest market in the world,
ultimately they're going to find themselves playing by China's rules.
If America stays the biggest market in the world, then we can play by our rules.
And not that we should use the, the way China does, right.
We shouldn't say like, no, nobody can say bad stuff about America, America.
We've got a great tradition of free speech here. Uh, despite some tensions, uh,
it's a world of difference from China.
And we carry so many other countries,
smaller countries from Europe, Canada, Australia, on our backs,
in that regard as creating a sort of cornerstone of openness as
a leading market in the world.
That's how it's been for so long that people don't even think about.
But if we go into a world where China's the number one economy,
where that's the number one market,
where that's what every company cares most about China's rules,
then we're going to be in trouble. We're going to be in trouble here.
The Swedes are going to be in trouble.
And I don't think that's a world we should look forward to. I mean,
I started talking about, you know, China is trying to use their,
their market power to sort of sensor Americans and nobody in
America thinks that's good. Right? Like there's, nobody is like, yeah,
I think it's great that like,
Marvel had to take a Tibetan character out of a Dr.
Strange, isn't that crazy? Like,
that's not the biggest deal in the world is kind of a big deal though. BS,
like what, like what, what is that right?
And it puts in perspective,
like what our disagreements actually amount to that,
like when you compare us to China,
this is Gulf, right? And like, don't, we want to stay number one.
Don't we want to have the biggest market, the biggest economy. So you.
You can't that it's ever possible though, to, if we got big enough,
we could ignore the influence of China.
Do you think they would put that money aside because China is always going to be
big?
Well, I don't think you ignore it, but you are able to have the upper hand.
Do you really think that we could ever get to a point where Marvel would say,
you know what, China, we're putting it to bed and guy in there,
that's supposed to beat Tibetans.
In a place where you can say to them, you've got to, we don't wanna.
Have to make it a white woman with a bald head. Let's make it a Tibetan guy.
Like it is in the comic book. I think in the comic book, it's a guy, right?
I think so. Yeah. Well, either way it's to Tibet and it's definitely.
Tibet. The ancient one. Yeah.
I don't think it's a woman either. I think they went full diversity. They, they,
they,
maybe it's a good move going with a bald lady and people will say less than if
you go with.
I think that that's right. You, you, you gender bend it. So then it it's like,
well, maybe you shouldn't criticize that. Right. Because it's good.
But it's like, no, we know what actually is motivating this.
And it's, it sucks.
We could ever get to a point where China wouldn't have an influence because
China is still going to be a billion people in a huge market.
They're big. But I think we can be number one. I mean, there's beyond growth.
Like I think that we have to be more forceful government wise in
how we treat our own.
Company's willingness to cater into that. Like,
I think that we need to put some social pressure,
if nothing else on Hollywood to not do that.
Yeah. But see,
they did hedge their bets by making it a woman was like very clever,
clever with a way of being a. Um,
do you remember when the world health organization, there was a,
a spokesperson for the world health organization being interviewed by this
woman? And she kept asking them about Taiwan and the, he hung up the phone,
hung up the show, the camera. And then when he came back on, she was like, uh,
so we were talking about Taiwan. It's like, well, China's done an amazing job.
And I think we've kind of covered that. And she's like, well,
and everybody's like, look at this.
He won't even mention Taiwan because Taiwan is not a recognized entity by the
people's Republic of China or whatever the they call it.
I mean, you know, the, who is there like a unique, uh,
bind in that regard, but it's, you know, it's troubling, right?
Like when you see the Olympics right on
NBC,
like the broadcast was referring to Taiwan is Chinese Taipei,
which was like some kind of international. Yeah. And he watching, like,
this is BS, you know, like,
it's fine if the IOC itself,
cause like you want to have China in the Olympics, it's a big country. And so,
you know, they want to be a pain in the about it. I dunno.
Maybe you got to give it, but like an American television broadcaster,
it's a capsule. Self-respect it's called Taiwan. I don't know.
I don't know what Taiwan means or I was just like, that's what it's called.
Yeah. You know, a lot of students, I'm not going to pretend.
Is that amazing though, they're willing to capitulate.
But that's what people do. But.
You know, it's so weird. Like the Dr. Strange thing is weird,
but there's a lot of instances, the NBA things weird.
There's so many of these things that are weird. You're like, what really?
But you just realize how much money is coming from China. And that, you know,
they've worked very hard to expand that influence and reinforce that
influence.
They're very deliberate about it.
And I think it's something America needs to be more serious about,
you know? And I think people just like people in culture and society,
you need to be more outspoken that like kiddo cause each little
compromise. I'm sure whoever in the script meeting was like,
can we just make this a white lady? Yeah. Was like, well, what's the big deal.
Right. Okay.
But we're like completely erasing the doctors,
Tibetans Tibetan culture, right?
Like Tibetan culture is not that big a deal in the United States of course,
because we're the United States, but this is one of its footprints. Right.
And to just snuff it out like that because of Chinese money,
because you want the Chinese market and like, that's that sucks.
Yeah.
There was a video about all the different things they've done to films to cater
to Chinese markets and how different they make these movies it's and it was
really bizarre. Yup. Um, would that change at all?
If there was a billion?
I mean, I think it would. I think that the more America has clout,
the more we can say, look,
you have to say no to Chinese censorship.
If you want to be in the American market.
I don't think that's going to be a realistic approach if we slip and fall
further and further behind.
Two,
but they don't know that there's Chinese censorship until after the fact we find
out, well, Dr. Strange, his mentor was actually supposed to be a Tibet man.
They turned it into a bald lady.
Well, no. I mean with like with the movies, there's a whole process,
a Penn America did a good report about this,
but like where Hollywood films are submitted to the Chinese censors and
you know, we ought to say, I mean, I'll hold a billion thing aside.
Like I think we ought to say like, no, like you can't, you can't do that.
Did, uh, you know, if the Chinese don't want to you.
And you're saying no to that, didn't did,
Terentino's say no to the editing of scenes.
I think there was a thing they wanted edited out.
It might have been about Bruce Lee. Hmm. Cause you know,
there's this which I found distasteful, even though I'm a giant Tarantino fan,
his portrayal of Bruce Lee is just not accurate.
He made him look like a buffoon. Oh. And uh, once upon a time in Hollywood.
Yeah. I think they resisted the changing. Is that true? Here?
It is a Tarantino. Uh,
one of the rare directors with the power to demand final cut on his relatively
expensive films. Reportedly has no intention of re-editing the picture.
Not for Shannon Lee, not for Chinese censors squeamish about the films,
graphic violence. Not for any reason. Yeah.
He refuses to recut for the Chinese market.
Yeah. And I mean, you know, I don't know. I mean that, that Bruce Lee was not.
You scroll down on it. Fair to him. Okay. Look at that.
The film will not be released in China. Wow.
He refused to edit the Bruce Lee scene out in order to secure a theatrical
release in China, catch new episodes of the Joe Rogan experience for free.
Only on Spotify.
Watch back catalog J R E videos on Spotify,
including clips easily seamlessly switch between video
and audio experience on Spotify.
You can listen to the JRE in the background while using other apps and can
download episodes to save on data costs. All for free.
Spotify is absolutely free.
You don't have to have a premium account to watch new JRE episodes.
You just need to search for the JRE on your Spotify app.
Go to Spotify now to get this full episode of the Joe Rogan
experience.